+++
title = "Meme Magic, Anons, and Trump"
date = 2020-09-21T20:26:00Z
+++

*(This post was originally posted to a discussion board for my Philosophy and
*Fascism class. Context and allusions to other discussions are preserved.)*

A recently released documentary called Feels Good Man will be the source of much
of the content of this post. It came out recently and I highly recommend a
viewing, as it will do a better job of exploring the topic in general.

So to continue our discussion on Incels, I want to talk about how 4chan and
8chan significantly assisted Trump's rise to power. It begins when Matt Furie
draws a comic about living post-college with a bunch of friends called Boys
Club. Later on, the phrase "feels good man", which appears in a panel, starts
being posted to various bodybuilding forums to express the joy of completing a
workout. Scans and colorings and new drawings of Pepe begin to appear, while the
culture of it migrates to 4chan.

The denizens of 4chan, known as "anon"s, have formed a sort of corrupted class
solidarity. For the most part, they are 20-something living in their parents'
basement. The term NEET describes most of them. They have no drive to be
successful in the world and only thrive off of posting and replying. These posts
usually take the form of ferocious insults directed at other board members. But
behind that vitriolic veil, exists the class solidarity. It is the knowledge
that all of these people are "alone together", and they share in their
suffering. As one subject put it, society does not allow perceived
vulnerability. 4chan and the social media influencer era began at similar times,
with one obsessing over negativity and wrapped up in nihilism, and the other
obsessing over positivity and vanity, always trying to show the world how happy
they are and how perfect their life is. That split is the inciting incident for
anons' perception of the "normie", someone who has a regular happy life and
seems to have no issues. 

Bringing it back to Pepe for a moment, new drawings of the character expressing
emotions that are normally taboo, along with a character called Wojack, which
symbolizes the anon and their pain. The variety and creativity of Pepe images
increased over time. At some point, the cartoon frog drew attention from various
"normies", the majority being young girls. Alongside the self-obsession and
vanity of regular social media, this symbolizes the commodification of the
internet. 

To put it lightly, anons were very upset about this. They began creating
offensive Pepe images, Pepes performing acts that are crude and disgusting in
most people's eyes. Most importantly, and this is the crux of the entire
movement, the images were always portrayed as jokes, as ironic, as not really
meaning anything. That irony provided a shield of ambiguity. It allowed anons to
post these vulgar images without betraying their personal opinions. 

The problem with irony is irony poisoning. This is a phenomenon in which a
person begins making joke images or just regular snarky posts that they don't
actually believe, but slowly begins to change their mind. This is an important
step forward in the radicalization of anons, and ties into a discussion of
magic. 

John Michael Greer, a scholar and mystic, was interviewed for this film. He says
that a new magic is taking place in America. People can focus their energies
onto a totem or idol, which can create effects beyond regular empirical
conception. In this case, the idol is Pepe, Trump, and the combination of the
two: a famous image of Donald Trump redrawn as the green frog. When Trump posted
that image on Twitter, it was an acknowledgment of the movement, and evidence
that the new meme magic was working. Boards reacted to this with fervor. The
powerless class of anons finally had evidence of their collective power. That's
what makes this so interesting. Instead of being given a proper working-class
revolution, the absence of a machine of leftist politics in American society
left the abandoned anons to create their own online. 

Another turning point in this meme magic story is the conversion of this
internet energy into real-life events. Anons showed up at Trump rallies,
[screamed "Pepe" at a Hillary
event](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5_9f-4Koivc), and even sought their own
"promised land" of Kekistan.[^1] They sought to corrupt the truth and create
chaos. Steve Bannon says it best: "flood the zone with shit." We begin to see
fascist elements in this movement, not only with the promised land ideology of
Kekistan but also the perception of winning and losing in a battle against the
normies. These anons that perceive themselves to be at the bottom of society,
are finally organizing to take back what is rightfully theirs. That sounds a
little fascist to me. I relate it to the political rise of Mussolini and the
fascists in the streets doing fascism on their own (Paxton).

A somewhat related facet of this discussion is Matt Braynard, the director of
strategy and data for Trump's 2016 campaign. He now runs an organization called
Look Ahead America. He uses the obscene plethora of online data available about
everyone to target potential Trump voters. Braynard speaks
[here](https://www.wmur.com/article/former-trump-campaign-staffers-to-launch-new-organization-in-nh/12165807#):

> We're applying to identify patriotic Americans who've become disaffected and
cynical, so we can engage them on issues relevant to them, get them registered,
get them educated and turn them out to vote.

My intuition says that he is targeting the same kind of people who would use
4chan, if they were only born 30 or 40 years later. The organized right has
successfully won the war of ideas in the minds of regular Americans.

I end this post and open it for discussion with the actual translations of
online vitriol into real-world violence. It came up in discussion that a
non-insignificant amount of
[shootings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4chan#Incel_spree_killers) and murders
in America were related to 4chan, and the "beta uprising", which is the movement
discussed above. This is the world we live in, right now. Alongside the world
created by liberal capitalist projects of the 80s, and the remnants of
post-industrial monopolies, it leaks into the zeitgeist. After the initial
fascination with this culture, I am left with a level of dread that isn't easy
to ignore. But hope exists in a potential organized leftist movement to
permanently change the power relations of this country.

## Footnotes

[^1]: Kek was originally gamer slang, which came about because rival factions
Alliance and Horde in World of Warcraft were not allowed to read each other's
messages, and they were scrambled by the game. When a Horde player typed "lol",
Alliance players read that as "kek" and vice versa. But research preformed by
anons led them to the ancient Egyptian god of the same name, which brought a
plague of frogs upon the people. This is just a perfect coincidence and symbol
for the movement. Anons imagined themselves as Pepe frogs, storming and
terrorizing regular society with their numbers.
