+++
title = "Why I avoid highways"
date = 2019-08-03T06:28:00Z
+++

I've been doing a lot of driving recently. I left my very quaint hometown of
Cary on August First. In my navigator, I charted up Washington, District of
Columbia. And since I left my house at seven in the morning, I broke for lunch
at my cousin's restaurant near Charlottesville, Virginia. 

I might want to use our great national interstate system for this trip.
According to Google Maps, the trip would take about three hours for each leg,
adding up to five hours and fifty-eight minutes. This seems okay, but if I
changed one option in my app, I would add a measly one hour to the total time,
and experience so much more than seventy mph roadways can offer. 

### Why the interstate is good

In what might have been Eisenhower's only good policy decision, the interstate
system was created and funded by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956. It enables
faster travel by car and truck for people and goods throughout the nation. The
act's design created a national standard and funding for highways but left
ownership and construction up to the states. It put lots of people to work and
helped southern states beef up their industry. 

### Why the interstate is bad

Here comes the meat of this little anecdote. According to Wikipedia (which
happens to be the only source of information for this post) the interstate is
blamed for "contributing to the decline of some cities and for destroying
predominately African-American neighborhoods in urban centers," and I'm sure
we've all seen Cars. 

### 5 reasons why I avoid highways

1. Small Towns

    Since the interstate cuts out a lot of the trip time between places, I would
    miss out on all the small towns between destinations. I quite like being
    routed down the main street of a community that I've never been in before. 

1. Scenery

    The back roads that Google Maps takes me down are always very pretty and
    scenic. Very rarely do I go an entire trip without seeing one of those "NC
    Byway" or state equivalent signs. Even if they aren't always byways, the
    routes always end up being very hilly and curvy and fun to drive on.

1. Uniqueness

    Every road has its quirks. Especially in Virginia, there are so many short
    state roads crisscrossing farmland. I try to drive down a road if I haven't
    been on it before; I try to take a new route whenever I visit the same place
    more than once.

1. Lack of Cops

1. Storytelling potential

    Just today, on my way through Pennsylvania to visit cousins, I passed
    through a town with not just a roundabout, but an oval-about! I thought it
    was the coolest thing to drive on an oval-about after only seeing them in
    quirky *Cities: Skylines* YouTube videos. 

Those were some short reasons why I think that avoiding highways is sometimes
worth it. I definitely did not list all of the reasons floating around in my
head, nor did I elaborate as much as I could have. Having just arrived at my
Irish-descendant cousin's home I was offered alcohol and now I'm just a little
drunk. But in condolences, I'll post the GPX track of my trip from Baltimore to
State College from the second.

{{ leaflet(id="baltimore-to-state-college", gpx="/gpx/2019-08-02_14-31_fri.gpx") }}

Remind me to add taxonomies to this website so I can file this one under
"anecdotes".

